# Daniel Wendelken

We plan to create a real time operating system (RTOS) using Rust. Rust is a low level programming language with some built in safety nets that prevent segfaults and thread safety. Real time operating systems are reliable in both security and performance in a given time-frame. The combination of the Rust and a RTOS leads to a robust and secure os.  This os can be utilized by inherently vulnerable systems like IOT devices, vehicle systems, and other embedded systems.  With the prevalence of these systems growing more secure solutions are needed.

The course most relevant to this project EECE4029 Operating Systems and Systems Programming. In this course we discussed the different layers of a computer system such as the kernel, the architecture privilege rings, and networking.  Additionally we discussed concepts like paging and threading which are all relevant to creating a RTOS. A second course that be useful to this project is EECE2093C Software Engineering.  This course introduced life cycle models and requirement analysis which will be useful in the creation and execution of the project.  Some of these concepts include user stories and black-box/smoke testing.

The only technical work related to this project comes from my co-op experience at the EPA.  Rust shares a lot of similarities with C++ and while at the EPA I briefly worked on a C++ application. Some non technical skills built at my other co-ops which will be useful to this project is the software management sytsem 'agile' and interpersonal skills.  While I was at Kroger we used both kanban and scrum to plan our projects.  Adapting these strategies to our project will help us complete it in an organized and timely manner. The interpersonal skills I've gained from my time at Kinetic vision will help with team communication.

This project is interesting to me for several reasons. First, I've always had an interest in os operations and building a small RTOS will help me clarify and learn more about the internals of an os. I've wanted to learn about kernal development so having to develop it ourselves will force that learning.  Additionally I've recently been getting into computer security so trying to focus the os to be as secure as possible while maintaining a certain level of productivity should be interesting. While I have a base understanding of some security concepts working on this project should solidify my understanding.

Building an os from scratch is no small task. In order to complete the project I think it would be best if we first focus on porting a small preexisting RTOS into rust and work from there. There are several fully open source RTOSs that exist;  The most well known of these is FreeRTOS. The core components of this are ~ 13,000 lines of code and it is written in C. I believe we should begin by porting over the core components of this RTOS into Rust, which is ~ 4,000 lines per group member.  This will give us a decent launching point to develop any further.  To consider this project complete I would like to have a working codebase which can compile on LLVM microprocessors.
